Add change management guide to Pulumi Kubernetes Operator section (#20240)
pulumi/docs: content/docs/integrations/clouds/kubernetes/pulumi-kubernetes-operator/rolling-out-changes.md

---
title_tag: "Rolling out changes | Pulumi Kubernetes Operator"
meta_desc: Roll out changes safely with the Pulumi Kubernetes Operator by approving them upstream and previewing before a change reaches the operator.
title: Rolling out changes
h1: "Pulumi Kubernetes Operator: Rolling out changes"
menu:
    integrations:
        parent: kubernetes-clouds-operator
        identifier: kubernetes-clouds-operator-rolling-out-changes
        weight: 4
---

> The Pulumi Kubernetes Operator (PKO) keeps your infrastructure continuously reconciled with a specific version of a Pulumi program, declared in a `Stack` resource. By default it applies changes immediately: when the version a `Stack` tracks changes, the operator runs `pulumi up` and reconciles your infrastructure to it, with no built-in pause for review. The safety of a rollout therefore depends on approving a change *before* its version reaches the operator, and previewing it upstream where you need one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pulumi Kubernetes Operator keeps your infrastructure continuously reconciled with a specific version of a Pulumi program, declared in a `Stack` resource. By default it applies changes immediately: when the version a `Stack` tracks changes, the operator runs `pulumi up` and reconciles your infrastructure to it, with no built-in pause for review. The safety of a rollout therefore depends on approving a change *before* its version reaches the operator, and previewing it upstream where you need one.
```

- Review and merge changes through pull requests, with [CI that previews the change](#preview-a-change-before-it-reaches-the-operator).
- Pin production `Stack`s to an immutable commit (`spec.commit`) rather than a moving branch, and promote by advancing that commit in a reviewed pull request. Advancing the pin *is* the approval; the operator reconciles the new commit once it merges.

```yaml
apiVersion: pulumi.com/v1
kind: Stack
metadata:
  name: app-dev
spec:
  stack: my-org/my-app/dev
  projectRepo: https://github.com/example/app
  branch: main            # main is already reviewed; dev deploys every merge
---
apiVersion: pulumi.com/v1
kind: Stack
metadata:
  name: app-prod
spec:
  stack: my-org/my-app/prod
  projectRepo: https://github.com/example/app
  commit: 03658b5514f08970f350618a6e6fdf1bd75f45d0   # advanced only in a reviewed pull request
```

Don't let an unreviewed version reach the operator and rely on staging afterward to catch problems. Because reconciliation applies immediately, a broken version is live before any gate downstream of it can help. Keep approval upstream, where a change can still be stopped.

## Preview a change before it reaches the operator

> PKO does not hold a change for approval; it applies on reconcile. A preview (or a required approval) before a change goes live therefore has to run **upstream of the operator, in your CI**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pulumi Kubernetes Operator does not hold a change for approval; it applies on reconcile. A preview (or a required approval) before a change goes live therefore has to run **upstream of the operator, in your CI**.
```

Reviewer: Also - the operator _does_ have preview mode. Changing it is a code change, but this wording gives the impression that a stack in preview mode will actually run pulumi up.
